you know every time I nestled into the
driver's seat of my car my first
instinct was to stuff my phone into the
glove box I kept doing it for a long
time until about a week ago I found out
that my carelessness could damage my
cell phone beyond repair glove
compartments and mine is no exception
tend to be filled with tons of useful
stuff from snacks and napkins to
insurance papers and the car owners
manual and gloves right yeah you think
why else do they call it that anyway why
not add your phone to this pile of
useful things this way you won't see it
and it'll be easier to fight that
irresistible impulse to check your phone
for new messages every five minutes
which means you won't get distracted
from the road great sounds good to me
but this out of sight out of mind
approach can leave you with another
problem on your hands you don't have
your phone in sight so when you get out
of the car you're likely to leave it
where it is in the glove box
welcome to the moment where you might
lose your phone altogether
modern smartphones are vulnerable to
extreme temperatures no matter if those
are freezing or scorching hot that's why
if you forget to grab your phone out of
the glove compartment in the summer even
if you're just popping into the grocery
store for a loaf of bread get ready for
trouble a car even if it isn't parked in
direct sunlight can heat up to over a
hundred degrees in under an hour and not
only will your vehicle's outer shell get
red hot to the touch but it's inside
will turn into a mini greenhouse as well
the fact that your phone is in the glove
box will only worsen the situation once
the heat reaches 95 degrees Fahrenheit
your phone will get warmer and warmer
until all the electronics is packed with
get too hot the result is likely to be
dramatic from data loss to permanent
battery damage in the worst-case
scenario the heat can lead to battery
leakage and that's outright dangerous
because it can cause a fire and cost you
not only your phone but your whole car
so just keep in mind that the
temperature in the enclosed and stuffy
glove compartment
can rise way higher than 95 degrees cold
temperatures can do just as much harm to
your gadget and I'll tell you about that
a bit later but first have you ever had
any problems with your phone because of
the heat if so tell me in the comments
below what you did to deal with them
what I know for sure
you shouldn't unlock your phone and open
any apps especially processor intensive
ones like games it can make your device
get even hotter the best idea is to put
the phone in airplane mode and leave it
alone for a while this mode will cut
your device from all kinds of networks
and it'll relieve a lot of the strain
your phone is experiencing if your phone
is in a case immediately take it off the
problem with protective cases is that
they can block the vents and prevent
your gadget from cooling down but the
most effective way of dealing with an
overheated phone is to trust the old
switch it off method experts claim that
turning your phone off or even a half a
minute usually helps cool it down it
also resets all processes that demand a
lot of memory and can cause additional
overheating and now try to remember the
last time you got in your car on a
freezing winter morning the temperature
inside wasn't so different from the
outside right so what would happen if
your phone had to spend some time in
such conditions well nothing good
smartphones don't take kindly to
freezing temperatures and anything lower
if you abandon your device in a cold car
it's likely to have problems later on
with its display its battery life will
get shorter and it may start to shut off
on its own cold temperatures can even
cause some physical damage your
smartphones glass display could shatter
so what can you do to protect your phone
from all that simple
don't put your gadget in the glove box
to make sure that it doesn't distract
you while you're driving
so which only do not disturb while
driving mode instead it'll prevent all
those messages and notifications from
popping up on the screen and catching
your attention but even if you never
leave your phone in the glove
compartment I bet you make some other
mistakes that can damage your precious
device because I do with alarming
regular
for example it's very dangerous to keep
a charging phone under something like a
pillow or blanket everybody that likes
to sleep with it nearby for fear of not
hearing the alarm let's all just raise
our hands
still most devices get warmer while
charging which is normal but if there's
something on top of your phone it'll
prevent that heat from dissipating and
then if worse comes to worst the whole
charging situation may end in a fire the
best way to fill your phone's battery is
by putting the device on a cool hard
surface out of the Sun now if you're
like me go ahead and keep your hand up
guilty of failing to update your apps
yep even if it seems like no big deal
it's a crucial safety issue newly
updated apps can deal with bugs more
effectively they're more likely to
notice some security weaknesses and can
easily identify new threats your phone
doesn't have the best protection if your
applications aren't up-to-date another
thing loads of people tend to forego is
cleaning their phones and I'm not
talking about deleting unflattering
photos or old chat history I mean taking
wet wipes and cleaning the phone's body
and doing the same with a microfiber
cloth for the screen you'd be terrified
if you know how many bacteria are
hanging out on your most beloved device
some of these bacteria for example
Salmonella or ecoli can make you sick
forget about that popular idea of
putting your phone in the freezer when
it heats up such sharp temperature
changes can do irreparable damage the
main reason for that is condensation
that can appear inside your gadget and
lead to all kinds of trouble and if
you've ever dropped your phone in water
you know that damage it can do another
disservice you can do to your fault is
to charge it with the help of a non
original charger losing or breaking your
charger is a pretty common situation and
those cheap alternatives seem like a
great bargain but you should understand
that this low price must have some catch
and it does a low quality charger can
seriously damage your phone or even set
it on fire so remember that chargers
made by the phone's manufacturer usually
can't boast great quality stability and
efficiency try to get an original one
now the following mistake won't harm
your phone or anything but I feel it's a
useful tip to share there was a time
when I used to close all the open apps
to save my phone battery but not so long
ago I found out it was a pointless waste
of my time and closing most of the
applications did nothing to prolong the
battery life the apps you've opened
before aren't running in the background
and even if you close them all it won't
change anything the only kinds of apps
that can indeed drain your battery are
location services public Wi-Fi is
becoming more and more common and it's
often hard to resist the temptation to
surf the Internet at no cost but don't
forget that the information you access
and share while using public Wi-Fi can
become visible to other people if they
know how to search for it and many do a
much better idea is to use a private
Wi-Fi network protected by a password
but if it's not an option and you have
to use a public network
try not to visit sites where you must
enter your username and password and I
feel like it goes without saying but let
me just go ahead and do that don't
squeeze your smartphone or put anything
heavy on it try to keep it out of your
pockets and don't throw it carelessly
into your bag
too much pressure can damage the screen
from the inside and while on the outside
your gadget will look no different
you'll still see a blurred picture or
non-working pixels on its display
[Music]